Tweak Some Unicode-Related Text (#1103)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/types.md

### 8.2.5 The string type

> The `string` type is a sealed class type that inherits directly from `object`. Instances of the `string` class represent a sequence of UTF-16 code units.

Reviewer: Following other suggestions we maybe revert this one as well:

```suggestion
The `string` type is a sealed class type that inherits directly from `object`. Instances of the `string` class represent Unicode character strings.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure about this one. Even if they're stored in some other form internally strings still *represent* a sequence of UTF-16 code units, right? (For example, `string x = "\U0001F600";` will always report a length of 2, with the `x[0]` being equal to `\uD83D` and `x[1]` being equal to `\uDE00` right?)

Reviewer 2: Discussed, and we'll keep this.

> The `string` type is a sealed class type that inherits directly from `object`. Instances of the `string` class represent a sequence of UTF-16 code units, whose endianness is implementation-defined.

Reviewer 3: If the representation (including endianness) of UTF-16 code units in strings were not the same as in `char`, then memory allocation would be necessary in the conversion from `string` to `ReadOnlySpan<char>`, and in `fixed (char* p = str)`.

However, I'm not sure the standard should require implementations to store all strings in UTF-16 all the time.  It could allow implementations to use a tighter encoding such as ISO-8859-1 for some strings, provided that the implementation can expand the string to UTF-16 when a `ReadOnlySpan<char>` or `char*` is needed.  (A variable-length encoding such as UTF-8 could be too costly to implement, because of the string[int] indexer.)

Reviewer 3: In other words, I'd slightly prefer if the standard said that a string represents a sequence of UTF-16 code units (which do not have to be valid UTF-16) but did not prescribe any in-memory format or endianness for strings.

AFAICT, the endianness of `int` is currently unspecified rather than implementation-defined.  I don't see why the endianness of `char` (and `ushort`, which has the same representation) would be more important for implementations to document.

Author: @KalleOlaviNiemitalo Regarding "Instances of the `string` class represent a sequence of UTF-16 code units, whose endianness is implementation-defined." note the comma. This is intended to say that the ordering of the UTF-16 code units in the (singular) string instance is implementation-defined, rather than the bits in any `char` in that string (which is how I would read that sentence *without* the comma. I say that because I'm confused by your mention of endianness with scalar types.

Reviewer 3: Why would you say that that the ordering of the UTF-16 code units is implementation-defined?  What kind of freedom would implementations have there?

For example, in the string "cat", the UTF-16 code units must be (U+0063, U+0061, U+0074).  Do you think some implementation would prefer storing those in the opposite order in memory, i.e. { 0x0074, 0x0061, 0x0063 }?  As `"cat"[2]` must still be `'t'`, I expect that would only be harder to implement.

Or, did you mean an implementation might swap the code units in each surrogate pair?  I mean, store `"👁eye"` (U+1F441, U+0065, U+0079, U+0065) as { 0xDC41, 0xD83D, 0x0065, 0x0079, 0x0065 } rather than { 0xD83D, 0xDC41, 0x0065, 0x0079, 0x0065 }.  I expect this would make sorting slower.

Author: @KalleOlaviNiemitalo Re endianness, here's what my notes say, which is very likely where I got the idea to add the text I did:

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/character-encoding-introduction#utf-8-and-utf-32 says, the following: 

In .NET, the UTF-16 code units of a string are stored in contiguous memory as a sequence of 16-bit integers (char instances). The bits of individual code units are laid out according to the [endianness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness) of the current architecture.

On a little-endian architecture, the string consisting of the UTF-16 code points [ D801 DCCC ] would be laid out in memory as the bytes [ 0x01, 0xD8, 0xCC, 0xDC ]. On a big-endian architecture that same string would be laid out in memory as the bytes [ 0xD8, 0x01, 0xDC, 0xCC ].

Computer systems that communicate with each other must agree on the representation of data crossing the wire. Most network protocols use UTF-8 as a standard when transmitting text, partly to avoid issues that might result from a big-endian machine communicating with a little-endian machine. The string consisting of the UTF-8 code points [ F0 90 93 8C ] will always be represented as the bytes [ 0xF0, 0x90, 0x93, 0x8C ] regardless of endianness.

Reviewer 2: I think I agree with @KalleOlaviNiemitalo here, as per my previous comment... it's *possible* that requirements of interop mean we need this, but we should discuss it further in a meeting rather than making an assumption. It's possible that we could change the "implementation-defined" line to constrain it to "when the underlying memory of a string is exposed for interop reasons" or similar.

Reviewer: I don’t think endianness should be mentioned here. The Standard says little about interop in general and mentioned endianness once non-normatively (§23.5.1 example). I would expect any *implementation* concerned with interop would document the endian order used and be consistent.

I also agree with @KalleOlaviNiemitalo that the Standard should not prescribe the in-memory structure of strings – that is down to the implementation – just that the type present them, as per the API, as a sequence of UTF-16 code units.

AFAIK this Standard, the CLR one, and the MS .NET documentation also does not (rightly or wrongly) go into the efficiency/performance of the API in general so we need not say this presentation shall be efficient but hope that it is!
